# `.xff` specification v1

> [!note]
> ***This version is not yet finalized.***

This specification is a superset of `.xff` specification v0, meaning that any and all `.xff` files created in v0 can be read in v1. The reverse is not possible.
Because of this, large portions of this specification have been carried over from v0.

## Musings about a future version 1

- A way to represent arrays of data in byte form directly in `.xff` would be nice.
    - I am continuously running into the need to at least be able to store key-value pairs in `.xff` files.
- Some kind of optional metadata for any data, be it strings, data or even command characters.
- Maybe integrate an object store directly, solving all of the above?
- Think about what to do with features, implement version dependent read and write functions?
- Everything gets a length attribute. For performance.
    - Variable amount of length-bytes by prepending a single byte encoding the length of the length-bytes. Maximum length possible: 1.2E614 bytes - Length of a Petabyte: 1e15 which needs only 8bytes.
        - If a bool is prepended (taking up a byte as well), 0 could be used for 5 byte length encoding, and 1 for 8 byte length encoding.
            - Changing to 4 byte and 8 byte encoding may be prudent in this case.

## Note for version 255 - move to v2 when v1 done
- Add a second version byte to the start of the file, easy 256 more versions right there!
    - Fuck it, 2 more version bytes for 65.536 more versions! If I ever reach 255 I'll need them!
